Gaspard Hassenforder
+44 7415 301737
Linkedin
hassenforder.gaspard@gmail.com
A motivated master’s student with a strong work ethic and a strong  aptitude for the hard sciences.
Dual French-British citizen, looking for opportunities to learn and discover more in data science. Passionate about Judo and enticed by all new technologies and their potential impact on our future.


EDUCATION 
HEC, Paris, M2 - Master in Data Science and AI for Business — 2024/2025
Focused on real-world business challenges through data-driven solutions, Developed skills in analysing business issues related to Data Science and AI, building and optimising models using state-of-the-art tools, and understanding their societal impact. 

Polytechnique, Paris, M1 - Master in Data Science and AI for Business — 2023/2024
Honing my expertise in key disciplines including Statistics, Machine Learning, Database Management, Deep Learning, and Optimization. 

Lycée Francais Charles de Gaulle, London, UK — 2017/2020
Obtained with highest honours (17.02/20) for the 2020 French Baccalauréat in the scientific section (specialised in Maths, Physics and Sciences).

EXPERIENCE
Ekimetrics, Paris, FR — Data Scientist Intern
April 2024 - September 2024
Implemented a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) solution to assist in automating the Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) questionnaire process. This significantly enhanced the efficiency of human users, reducing manual effort and increasing completion speed by leveraging relevant document retrieval and generation techniques.
more info about project: "The first project I was assigned involved developing a solution to automatically fill out an ESG questionnaire with accurate, sourced data. Additionally, we faced the challenge of enabling a model to process an unstructured questionnaire, consisting of various types of questions, which might be presented in a non-standard tabular format.
To achieve this, we first needed to parse the PDF questionnaire containing the questions. We then utilized a Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) model to leverage a large language model (LLM) to automatically answer the questions, while citing its sources.
The client is required to complete this questionnaire annually as part of the S&P Global's Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA), which evaluates companies' sustainability performance. The scores generated from this assessment are critical factors in determining inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) and the S&P Global ESG Indices. It covers over 13,000 companies worldwide, and measures a company's performance on a wide range of industry-specific economic, environmental and social criteria. Companies are assessed via sector-specific questionnaires, covering around 23 sustainability topics and 110 questions in total. Scores range from 0 to 100, with percentile rankings for financially relevant sustainability criteria. The CSA is used by investors and corporations to assess the sustainability and reputation of participating companies. Over 3,500 companies participated in the CSA in 2023, marking its 25th evaluation cycle.
In the context of evaluating ad campaign effectiveness, Brand Lift data is a crucial tool for understanding how ads influence key brand metrics. Once your ad campaigns commence, Google integrates Brand Lift surveys into YouTube videos that viewers watch.So instead of ads, sometimes there are surveys asking you questions like “do you remember seeing and ad for any of the following brands recently” , “For which of the following brands do you have a positive opinion of” or “How likely are you to recommend this brand to a friend or colleague”. These surveys target two distinct groups: those who have seen the ad and those who were eligible to see them but did not. This approach allows for a comparative analysis between the exposed and non-exposed groups, helping to measure the true impact of your ads on brand metrics such as ad recall, brand awareness, and consideration.
The Brand Lift measurement data provides several metrics that offer insights into the performance of ad campaigns. Key metrics include the number of "Lifted Users," who are users that show a positive shift in brand perception due to ad exposure, and "Cost per Lifted User," which indicates the cost associated with each user who demonstrates increased engagement with the brand.The metrics we will be using as our target variable in our models will be "Absolute Brand Lift," reflecting the overall increase in brand metrics due to the campaign, "Headroom Brand Lift," which estimates the additional lift potential if the campaign reached more users, and "Relative Brand Lift" which  compares the increase in brand metrics between the exposed and baseline groups.
Additionally, the dataset provided by Google includes valuable population metrics such as device type, age, gender, and country, as well as survey-relevant metrics like the number of responses. This will allow us to filter out rows that might not be statistically significant. For example, if a sample size is too small, the brand lift measured for a brand by people using a certain device could skew the results.
"

Developed a causality model using Python libraries EconML and DoWhy to measure customer uplift for brand awareness from Brand Lift surveys on YouTube. This model provided clear, data-driven insights into the direct effects of YouTube ad campaigns on brand awareness for a global brand.
more info about project: "We were engaged by a global corporation that advertises on YouTube in nearly every country. With a vast array of ads for various products, they generate a significant amount of data. While they have been analyzing ad performance on a market-by-market basis and potentially on an ad-by-ad basis, our objective is to examine global brand awareness and determine which types of YouTube ads are most effective for their products and audience."
Contributed to a Marketing Mix Modeling (MMM) project for a major airline. Helping to quantify the impact of various marketing channels, enabling the airline to optimize budget allocation and improve marketing ROI.

VP & White UK Ltd, London, UK — Software Development Intern
August  2022 - September 2022
Developed front and back end processes for a new e-learning platform (C#, SQL, CSS, .NET)
Created unit testing processes, tested the application, created logs of outstanding issues, and provided usage feedback.

Dassault Systèmes Ltd, London, UK — Intern, Partnerships and University Recruitment Analyst
July 2019
Developed and presented to Dassault senior management a project analysing and mapping the existing partnerships between universities and the company with an aim to optimise university level recruitment.
Applied the ins and outs of Computer Assisted Design (“CAD”)  software, such as Catia and SolidWorks, to understand intricate aerospace models.

Altyx Financial Planning Ltd, London, UK — Intern, Client Services and Compliance Support
June  2018 - July  2018
Managed the client satisfaction survey via online platform SurveyMonkey and analysed the results for senior management and compliance functions. 
Assisted a Financial Planner on the regulatory AML checks of clients. 
Assisted and collaborated with the team on the GDPR implementation and Setup of the Clients Passwords database.
Worked daily on various investments reporting spreadsheets for various private clients

PROJECTS
CapGemini Data Camp - 2024
Contributed to a team project analysing customer feedback via sentiment analysis, utilising BERT and GPT-3.5 for data scraped from Trustpilot. Enhanced client's customer satisfaction through actionable insights derived from advanced NLP techniques.
Judo Black Belt (1st Dan), The Budokwai — 2008/2019
With more than 11 years of experience and competing in international competitions. 
Captain of the dojo junior judo squad for 4 years (until 2019), assisting in organising competitions. Refereed local junior (5-7 year old) competitions. Learned rigour and discipline whilst also gaining practical leadership skills 
Mathematics tutor - 2021
Mathematics and Statistics tutor for a pupil passing A-levels. Pupil achieved [A*] as final Mathematics grade

IT & LANGUAGE  SKILLS 
Bilingual in French and English and Intermediary level in Spanish
Working knowledge of Microsoft Office Suite 
High level in Python(Pandas, NumPy , scikit-learn, keras), SQL, Spark, PyTorch and moderate level in C#
Mastering essential data science skills (Statistics, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, etc.) and applying them in business contexts, including a capstone project on real-world challenges. Engaged in industry partnerships and competitive events to enhance practical learning.
